---
layout: post
title: Mobile development
date: 2017-01-03 16:19
author: tmasabari
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
Why?
<ul>
 	<li><strong>Because mobile development presents a pretty unique opportunity for a one-person development team to build an actual, usable, meaningful app end-to-end in a relatively short period of time.</strong></li>
 	<li><strong>it’s arguably the future of development</strong>, as mobile devices are becoming larger and larger parts of our lives.</li>
 	<li><strong>Mobile development is doing any kind of development for any kind of mobile device. mobile development encompases developing apps for phones, tablets, smart watches, and all other kinds of wearable devices which run some kind of mobile operating system.</strong></li>
 	<li><strong>there are two main contenders</strong>, and then there’s the rest. If it’s not iOS, it’s probably Android or both.</li>
 	<li>Technically, <strong>Android is the mobile OS with the largest, most dominant share of the market,</strong> weighing in at around an 80 percent share compared to iOS’s 18 percent share Everyone else left in the mobile OS market shares a measly, less than 2 percent share of the overall market.
<ul>
 	<li>Windows CE seemed so promising, but they just couldn’t get it right</li>
 	<li>Blackberry looked like it was going to dominate the world, and perhaps it did for a time.</li>
</ul>
</li>
 	<li><strong>iOS runs on iPhones, iPods, iPads, Apple Watches, and Apple TV</strong></li>
 	<li>iOS at its core is very Unix-like; it is based on Darwin (BSD) and OS X.</li>
 	<li>It shares some important frameworks with OS X, and its user interface is based on Apple’s Cocoa UI, which is used in OS X applications, but has been modified and redesigned for touch devices and called Cocoa Touch.</li>
 	<li>Apple provides iOS developers with several native tools and libraries to develop iOS applications, and, although you don’t need to use Apple’s development tools to build your apps, you do have to have a Mac running OS X to build your application.</li>
 	<li><strong>iOS applications are typically built utilizing either Objective-C or the now more popular development language for the platform, Swift</strong></li>
</ul>
<h2>Android</h2>
<ul>
 	<li>Those numbers are a bit deceiving since Android is a fragmented market, consisting of many different devices made by different manufacturers, running different versions of the Android operating system.</li>
 	<li>That is the primary difference between iOS and Android.
Android, backed by Google, is open. iOS, backed by Apple, is not.</li>
 	<li>Anyone can build an Android device, and it is designed to run on a variety of different hardware platforms and devices with very different form factors and capabilities. iOS is designed to run, and only runs on, a specific set of Apple devices.</li>
 	<li><strong>The native development platform for Android OS application is Java.</strong></li>
</ul>
&nbsp;

<strong>There are countless frameworks, tools, and entire platforms and ecosystems for developing mobile applications.</strong>
<ul>
 	<li>For iOS, that was XCode and Objective-C.</li>
 	<li>For Android, that was an Android SDK plugin to Eclipse, or Netbeans and Java.</li>
</ul>
As I mentioned before, for iOS, this was initially XCode and Objective-C, but <a href="http://amzn.to/2aZPxRH">Apple created a new language called Swift</a>, which is now the language of choice for developing iOS apps.

<a href="http://amzn.to/2aTdOtm">In the Android world</a>, not much has changed except that Google has put out its own Android Development Studio IDE. Java is still the preferred language (although, if you are really brave, C/C++ is officially supported).

<strong>The biggest issue with native mobile development is that you have to completely rewrite the code for your application for both iOS and Android</strong>. (If you want to support Windows Phone or another small platform, you must do the same for that platform as well.)

It’s not a huge deal, but applications typically need to be supported, so trying to support different versions of an application on two or more totally different platforms can be a bit of a maintenance nightmare.

Also, Android and iOS development is pretty much completely different.

The tools are different, the languages are different, the frameworks are different, and even the development paradigms are different.

Native development does have a few advantages.

The biggest one is raw speed—although some cross-platform frameworks like Xamarin can match it since they compile down to native code. We’ll get to that in a minute.

If you develop natively, <strong>you are also going to have better debugging tools </strong>since you won’t be operating with several layers of high abstraction.

You are also more likely to be able to <strong>take advantage of some of the native features of the platform</strong> and get closer to the hardware level.

&nbsp;
<h2>Cross-Platform Frameworks and Tools</h2>
<ol>
 	<li>Some of these solutions actually produce native code and wrap the real native libraries, so they are just an abstraction over the native language and tools, but they still require you to know and use the native libraries and frameworks.</li>
 	<li>Other solutions will build a hybrid application that has some native components and some web-based or HTML components and relies on the built-in mobile browser for creating most of the user interface and functionality of the application.</li>
</ol>
The main considerations to think about when choosing a cross-platform framework solution are:
<ul>
 	<li>What programming language you should use.</li>
 	<li>Whether you want to take a native or hybrid approach.</li>
 	<li>How many platforms you want your code to support.</li>
 	<li>Whether you can reuse code or not.</li>
</ul>
<a href="http://amzn.to/2aKURoI">My favorite one is Xamarin</a>, which allows you to write your app in C# but still get all the benefits and features of a full, natively-built application.

Other cross-platform solutions, <a href="http://amzn.to/2aHa4Yj">like Cordova for example</a>, take a hybrid approach where the application is not a native application, but it looks like one.

<strong>Typically, native is going to be faster and look and feel more like the mobile platform the app is running on,</strong> but some of the cross-platform, hybrid solutions are getting so close to native that is can be difficult to tell the difference.

&nbsp;

<strong>if you don’t have specific needs for platforms other than iOS and Android, I wouldn’t worry about cross-platform support beyond the two big dogs.</strong>

Games are a different consideration. If you are doing game development, you might want to pick a tool which supports the widest number of platforms possible. Tools like Unity 3D allow you to create games that can be run on just about every platform you can think of—even the web.

For example, <a href="http://amzn.to/2bh2Tus">Xamarin uses a common UI library called Xamarin Forms</a> that allows you to have a much larger percentage of code reuse between platforms by creating another abstraction layer on top of the native UI and frameworks of the underlying operating systems.

&nbsp;
<h2>Mobile Web Apps</h2>
<strong>Over the years, this option has become more and more feasible as the power and capabilities of mobile browsers have increased and adaptive web technologies have improved.</strong>

Many mobile OS browsers even have hooks to support invoking native functionality from inside the web browser, so you can do things like get location data and access things like the camera on the device.

Honestly, <strong>the future is mobile web apps</strong>—we just aren’t there quite yet.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;
