---
layout: post
title: Nunit 3.0 & 2.6.4
date: 2018-03-16 17:59
author: tmasabari
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized, Unit Test, Unit Test]
---
<h2>NUnit 2.6.4</h2>
NUnit tests may be written using any .NET language that supports attributes.

<a href="http://nunit.org/docs/2.6.4/attributes.html">Attributes</a> are used to indicate test classes and methods and to modify their behavior in various ways.

<a href="http://nunit.org/docs/2.6.4/assertions.html">Assertions</a> test an actual value against one or more <a href="http://nunit.org/docs/2.6.4/constraintModel.html">Constraints</a> and result in either a successful test or a failure.

User code may acquire information about the test and it's environment by use of the <a href="http://nunit.org/docs/2.6.4/testContext.html">Test Context</a>.

&nbsp;
<h2>NUnit 3.0</h2>
https://github.com/nunit/docs/wiki/Breaking-Changes

A relatively large number of features present in NUnit 2.6, were either removed in NUnit 3.0 or had their behavior modified in a way that will break existing code.

A key change is that the NUnit Test Engine will not recognize a test assembly that does not reference the NUnit framework directly.

&nbsp;

Changes in 3.0
<h6>Assertions and Constraints</h6>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Feature</th>
<th>Notes</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Assert.IsNullOrEmpty</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Assert.That(..., Is.Null.Or.Empty)</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Assert.IsNotNullOrEmpty</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Assert.That(..., Is.Not.Null.And.Not.Empty)</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is.InstanceOfType</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Is.InstanceOf</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is.StringStarting</td>
<td>Deprecated. Use <code>Does.StartWith</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is.StringContaining</td>
<td>Deprecated. Use <code>Does.Contain</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is.StringEnding</td>
<td>Deprecated. Use <code>Does.EndWith</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is.StringMatching</td>
<td>Deprecated. Use <code>Does.Match</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NullOrEmptyStringConstraint</td>
<td>No longer supported. See <code>Assert.IsNullOrEmpty</code> above</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>SubDirectoryContainsConstraint</td>
<td>No longer supported. Various alternatives are available.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Text.All</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Has.All</code> or <code>Is.All</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Text.Contains</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Does.Contain</code> or <code>Contains.Substring</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Text.DoesNotContain</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Does.Not.Contain</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Text.StartsWith</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Does.StartWith</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Text.DoesNotStartWith</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Does.Not.StartWith</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Text.EndsWith</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Does.EndWith</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Text.DoesNotEndWith</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Does.Not.EndWith</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Text.Matches</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Does.Match</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Text.DoesNotMatch</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Does.Not.Match</code></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h6></h6>
<h6>Attributes</h6>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Notes</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>ExpectedExceptionAttribute</td>
<td>No longer supported. Use <code>Assert.Throws</code> or <code>Assert.That</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>IgnoreAttribute</td>
<td>The reason is now mandatory</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>RequiredAddinAttribute</td>
<td>No longer supported.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>RequiresMTAAttribute</td>
<td>Deprecated. Use <code>ApartmentAttribute</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>RequiresSTAAttribute</td>
<td>Deprecated. Use <code>ApartmentAttribute</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>SuiteAttribute</td>
<td>No longer supported.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>System.MTAThreadAttribute</td>
<td>No longer treated as <code>RequiresMTAAttribute</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>System.STAThreadAttribute</td>
<td>No longer treated as <code>RequiresSTAAttribute</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>TearDown and OneTimeTearDown</td>
<td>There is a change to the logic by which teardown methods are called. See <a class="internal present" href="https://github.com/nunit/docs/wiki/SetUp-and-TearDown-Changes">SetUp and TearDown Changes</a> for details.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>TestCaseAttribute</td>
<td>Named parameter <code>Result=</code> is no longer supported. Use <code>ExpectedResult=</code>. Named parameter <code>Ignore=</code> now takes a string, giving the reason for ignoring the test.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>TestCaseSourceAttribute</td>
<td>The attribute forms using a string argument to refer to the data source must now use only static fields, properties or methods.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>TestFixtureAttribute</td>
<td>Named parameter <code>Ignore=</code> now takes a string, giving the reason for ignoring the test.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>TestFixtureSetUpAttribute</td>
<td>Deprecated. Use <code>OneTimeSetUpAttribute</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>TestFixtureTearDownAttribute</td>
<td>Deprecated. Use <code>OneTimeTearDownAttribute</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>ValueSourceAttribute</td>
<td>The source name of the data source must now use only static fields, properties or methods.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
&nbsp;
